## **About the dataset**
This PF database is a preferential flow database that is generated by using NEON soil moisture and precipitation.


## **Metadata for PF base file**
**File format**: XXXX_PF_database_00Y where xxxx is the NEON site name and y is the soil profile number ranging from 1 to 5.

**Event data fields**
* **stormStartTime** [UTC]               : Precipitation event starts.

* **stormEndTime** [UTC]               : Precipitation event ends.

* **stormStartValue** [mm/10min]             : The precipitation at the time step, in which precipitation events starts.

* **stormEndValue** [mm/10min]               : The precipitation at the time step, in which precipitation events ends.

* **stormSum** [mm]                     : Sum of precipitation of the precipitation event.

* **stormPeakIntensity** [mm/10min]         : The max precipitation for a given precipitation event.

* **stormPeakTime** [UTC]               : The time, in which  *stormPeakIntensity* is observed.

* **stormDuration** [hours]                : The duration of the precipitation events. 

* **smReponseType_50X** [-]         : If the sensor responded to a precipitation event. X represent the sensor position from 1 - 8 in most of the case.

* **smOnsetTime_50X**  [UTC]      : Soil moisture onset time.

* **smPeakTime_50X**  [UTC]      : Soil moisture peak time.

* **smAtOnset_50X** [v/v]            : Soil moisture value at the onset.

* **smAtPeak_50X** [v/v]             : Soil moisture value at the peak. 

* **smBeforePrecip_50X** [v/v]        : Soil moisture value right before precipitation start.

* **flowTypes** [-]                  : Type of flows. _notApplicable_ = less than 2 sensors are working. _nonSequentialFlow_ = at least 2 sensors responded to the precipitation event and the shallower sensor responses later than the deeper sensor. _SequentialFlow_ = at least 2 sensors responded to the precipitation event and the shallower sensor responded earlier than the deeper sensor.

* **flowPosition** [-]               : record which two sensors are involved in preferential flow. [501Xvs50Y_PF_50Y] = nonsequantial flow while comparing two sensors. The deeper sensor of each combo is recorded.

* **velocity_computed_50X** [cm/day]: The log scale computed flow velocity.

* **num_velocity_50X_median** [cm/day]  : The median of matrix flow velocity by a model in log scale. 


* **num_velocity_50X_95th** [cm/day]  : The 95th percentile of matrix flow velocity by a model in log scale. 


* **num_velocity_50X_99th** [cm/day]  : The 99th percentile of matrix flow velocity by a model in log scale. 

* **PF_velocity_metric_50X** [-] : Compared the **velocity_computed_50X** to **num_velocity_50X_99th**. PF is identified (assigned as **True**) is **velocity_computed_50X** is greater than **num_velocity_50X_99th**.

* **num_velocity_name_50X** [-] : The depth name where the **velocity_computed_50X** compares to.

* **sensor_nake_name_50X**  [-]:The nake name of the sensor format as **soil plot name**_**sensor position** i.e., 001_501 represent the top sensor of the first soil plot/profile at a site.

**Other data fields**

* **total_sand_50X** [%]: The weighted sand percentage based on soil information for megapits and distributed pits.

* **total_silt_50X** [%]: The weighted silt percentage based on soil information for megapits and distributed pits.

* **total_clay_50X** [%]: The weighted clay percentage based on soil information for megapits and distributed pits.

* **total_porosity_50X** [-]:The weighted porosity based on soil information for megapits and distributed pits.

* **total_eff_porosity_50X** [-]:The weighted effective porosity based on soil information for megapits and distributed pits.

* **total_root_density_50X** [$g/cm^3$]:The weighted root density based on root sampling for megapits and distributed pits.

* **latitude** [-]: site latitude.

* **longitude** [-]: sitle longitude.

* **aridity** [-]: The aridity index at the site as PET/P.

* **MAT** [°C]: Mean annual temperature of the site.

* **MAP** [mm]: Mean annual precipitation of the site.

* **field_utm_northing** [-]: northness of the site.

* **field_utm_easting** [-]: eastness of the site.

* **field_soil_subgroup**[-]: the soil types.

## **Authors**
* Bonan Li - data collection, methology, coding
* Matthias Sprenger - discussion and advisory 
* Tianfang Xu - discussion
* John Nimmo - discussion
* Hoori Ajami - discussion
* Ryoko Araki - discussion
* Octavia Crompton - discussion
* Daniel Gimenez - provided soil matrix flow simulation, discussion
* Jannis Groh - discussion
* Daniel Hirmas - methology,  provided soil data, and discussion
* Nitin Singh - discussion
* Briana Wyatt - discussion
* Inge Wiekenkamp - discussion
* Pamela Sullivan1 - discussion and advisory 

## **Online Repository link**

The database is avaiable at https://oregonstate.app.box.com/folder/247104527194
